# Project DASHBOARD

## Table of Contents

1. About the Project
   - purpose
2. Built With
3. Getting Started
   - Prerequisites
   - Installation
4. Description and Usage
5. Roadmap
6. Contributing
7. Licences
8. Contact
9. Acknowledgements

## 1. About the Project

### Purpose

The purpose of this web application is to provide the user with an all-in-one start page that:
a) gives users a quick update on the weather forecast and top international news stories
b) provides them with short-cut navigation to their favourite web pages
c) gives them quick & convenient access to a place where the user can make notes.


## 2. Built With

HTML
CSS
JavaScript
npm
Vite
Axios
GitHub

## 3. Getting Started

### Prerequisites

1. An IDE like e.g. VS Code or IntelliJ
2. Node.js, npm, Vite, Axios
3. Web browser, e.g. Google Chrome.
4. The HTML-documents requires links to the following style-sheet and javascript-file.
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<script type="module" src="/main.js" defer></script>
5. Access to https://github.com/hobornemann/Dashboard 

### Installation

1. The project is temporarily public. 
2. Once access has been provided, log in to GitHub and clone the project:
   https://github.com/hobornemann/Dashboard
3. Make sure that any new html-pages include the following css-links and javascript-links:
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<script type="module" src="/main.js" defer></script>
4. Launching the web application: In VS Code, standing in the Terminal window, you type: npm run dev
Ctrl+click on the link http://localhost:xxxx/
The application opens in your web browser.
If you try to open the application in the Live Server, it will not work. 
The package.json needs to include the following two dependencies (or later versions thereof): 
  "devDependencies": {
    "vite": "^5.0.8"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "axios": "^1.6.5"
  } 
5. Api Access Keys: 
To be able to use the Dashboard application, you need to have/get a free personal API Access Key from:
https://unsplash.com/
https://openweathermap.org/
https://newsapi.org/

The API access keys need to be copied into json-file called apiAccessKeys.json in the following way: 
{
    "unsplash": "your personal Api access key to unsplash",
    "openWeatherMap": "your personal Api access key to openWeatherMap",
    "newsApi": "your personal Api access key to newsApi" 
}


## 4. Description and Usage

### Description

The web application is a single-page application that provides the user with:
a) quick access to weather forecast and top international news stories
b) short-cut navigation to web pages the user has chosen 
c) quick & convenient access to a place where the user can make notes.

The application is responsive and can be used on desktops, tablets and mobile phones.

### Usage

1. Validation:
   The app validates:
- that a web-adress provided by the user for a short-cut web link is correctly formatted
- that the number of web links is not higher than can be shown in the container provided for web link short-cuts
 

2. Show/hide:

- When the user wants to add a new web link, a dialog box appears with two input-fields.In the first one, the user inserts the url to the new website. In the second one, the user provides a name to the website. When done, the user clicks the OK- or the Cancel-button. The dialog box disappears when a button has been clicked.  


3. User Interaction / Communication:

- Should the user insert a faulty url, a popup alert appears and explains that the provided web address was not fully correct. The alert provides info on what the user may have missed when inserting the url.


### Code 

Two functions have been developed for calculating the greatest common denominator:

1. A Simple 'brute force' Function

This function divides both user-provided numbers by a number generated by a decending for-loop and checks via the modulus operand whether the greatest common denominator has been found or not. The start value in the for-loop is equal to the smaller number of the two provided by the user. As soon as a looped-number results in zero-remainders for the two numbers, the greatest common denominator has been found.

```
function getGreatestCommonDenominatorViaSimpleMethod(number1, number2){
    const number1Absolute = Math.abs(number1);
    const number2Absolute = Math.abs(number2);
    const largestAbsoluteNumber = Math.max(number1Absolute, number2Absolute)
    const smallestAbsoluteNumber = Math.min(number1Absolute, number2Absolute);
    let remainderLargestNumber;
    let remainderSmallestNumber;
    for (i=smallestAbsoluteNumber; i >=1 ;i--){
        if(smallestAbsoluteNumber === 0){
            return 0;
        } else {
            remainderLargestNumber = largestAbsoluteNumber % i;
            remainderSmallestNumber = smallestAbsoluteNumber % i;
            if(remainderLargestNumber === 0  && remainderSmallestNumber === 0){
               return i;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

2. Prime Factor Array of the Smallest Number

This function breaks down the smaller number of the two provided by the user into an array of prime factors, i.e. the sequence of prime numbers that need to be multiplied in order to arrive at the smaller number. When the prime factor array has been determined, the larger number is then divided by the first value in the prime factor array by using the modulus operator. If the division results in a zero remainder, the value is multiplied by the default value for the greatest common denominator, i.e 1. The result of the division is stored and this number is then used to run a new modulus operation and to determine whether the stored value of the greatest common denominator should be multiplied by the second value in the prime factor array or not. The process continues until all values of the prime factor array have been checked and the greatest common denominator has been determined.

```
function getGreatestCommonDenominator(number1, number2){
    const number1Absolute = Math.abs(number1);
    const number2Absolute = Math.abs(number2);
    if(number1Absolute<number2Absolute){
        smallestAbsoluteNumber = number1Absolute;
        largestAbsoluteNumber = number2Absolute;
    } else {
        smallestAbsoluteNumber = number2Absolute;
        largestAbsoluteNumber = number1Absolute;
    }
    let greatestCommonDenominator = 1;
    let primeFactorArrayOfSmallestNumber = getPrimeFactorArrayOfANumber(smallestAbsoluteNumber);
    primeFactorArrayOfSmallestNumber.forEach((element) => {
        if((largestAbsoluteNumber % element) === 0){
            greatestCommonDenominator = greatestCommonDenominator * element;
            largestAbsoluteNumber = largestAbsoluteNumber / element;
        }
    });
    return greatestCommonDenominator;
}


function getPrimeFactorArrayOfANumber(number){
    const primeFactorArrayOfTheNumber = [];
    let divisor = 2;
    while(number >= 2){
        if (number % divisor === 0){
            primeFactorArrayOfTheNumber.push(divisor);
            number = number / divisor;
        } else{
            divisor++
        }
    }
    return primeFactorArrayOfTheNumber;
}
```

### Code Review 

In this section, I will provide some comments on the code, i.e. what I perceive to be the strengths and weaknesses. 

1. Strengths

a) MVC-inspired Module Structure: 

=> Model: 
> This application has a backend in the form of 
  a localStorage object (model.js) and the accessible databases of the API-providers (fetchData.js).

=> View: 
> the single-page HTML-document (index.html) only contains structural elements. It neither contains any styles nor any functionality. The dynamic parts of the web page are generated dynamically to fit data-items fetched from localStorage or the API-providers.
> all styles are included in one file (style.css). Elements that belong to each other are grouped together (weblinks, weather forecasts, news articles, notes). 

=> Controller:
> all event listeners are located in one file (main.js). Event listeners that are related to each other are also grouped together. 

b) Naming:
> HTML-elements, JS-objects/variables and functions have been given names that enable other developers to understand the code.

c) Refactoring
> 
TODO:

d) Validation of User Input
> The code contains at least a basic form of validation of user-input as regards the creation of new web links.


2. Weaknesses

a) Testing:
> The application has not been properly tested. The project lacks both unit tests and UI-test.

b) Error handling:
> 
TODO:
>

c) Accessibility:
> 
TODO:

d) Long names:
> unless you use special software to shrink the size of the application, longer names has the disadvantage of making the application larger than needs to be from a performance perspective. However, performance should not be an issue for this application. The clarity of code aspect is more important in this case.    





## 5. Roadmap 

For the time being, there are no plans to extend, update or permanently publish the application. It serves as a solution to an educational assignment. 



## 6. Contributing

Any suggestions for improvements, further developments of the project or other contributions are more than welcome.

1. Fork the project
2. Create your feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Open a pull request

## 7. Licences

No licences are required for development or publication of this web application. VS Code, Node.js, Axios, Vite, GitHub as well as the three data providers Unsplash, NewsApi and OpenWeatherMap offer free downloads / free accounts. The web application has not been published on any external web site yet.

## 8. Contact

Project assignment designed by:
Sandra Larsson
Sandra.Larsson@ChasAcademy.se

Project developed by:
Hans-Olov Bornemann
hans-olov.bornemann@chasacademy.se

Project-link:
https://github.com/hobornemann/Dashboard

## 9. Acknowledgements

Many thanks to Sandra Larsson for providing the project specification, description of required functionality as well as the design guidelines of this application.

Thanks also to the following communities/organisations/companies for providing open source and/or free version of their services/products:

Unsplash
OpenWeatherMap
NewsAPI
Developer.Mozilla.org
W3 School
Stack Overflow
SheCodes.io
GitHub
Microsoft










# PROJECT STRUCTURE





ERROR-HANDLING

No Network available error:
> 

API-Calls :
> default variants
> messages



User-input:>
> validation of usr input
> security aspects


User-interaction:
> double-clicks ?



Future Maintenance & Development:
> Need to make sure that id-numbers are universal for the document

